# April 2026 Status Update for Alfonso S. Siciliano

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-01 - 2026-04-07

### Project: KDE installer dialogs
#### **Overall Status:** On Track for 15.1
#### **Summary**

The idea is: a user installs KDE at the end of bsdinstall through a series of dialog-based interfaces.
After rebooting, sddm starts and the user can log into the graphical environment.
[Repository](https://gitlab.com/alfix/kde-installer-dialogs).

**Weekly Work Report:**

- Reviewing the comments reported in the reviewer to add the script to bsdinstall(8) https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56167.

#### **Completed Tasks**

 - The script installs and set up: gpu driver, xorg, KDE Plasma, and sddm after a fresh installation.
 - The script integrated in a generated ISO installs the GUI environment via bsdinstall.
 - [Review](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56167) to add the script in the installer.

#### **Features Delivered**

 - The _desktop_ script, tested with: VESA, SCFB, Intel, and AMD.
 - Added menu to select NVIDIA GPUs (tested via Call for Testing).
 - GPU auto-detection.
 - VirtualBox option in GPU menu, auto-detection, and pkgs installation.
 - VmWare option in GPU menu, auto-detection, and pkgs installation.
 - Add Option to install extra NVIDIA GPUs tools (tested via forum).
 - The _desktop.bsdinstall_ script, to install GPU drivers and KDE during a BSDInstall session.

#### **Challenges**

 - Testing GPU drivers, mainly NVIDIA.

#### **Next Steps**

- Add the script to bsdinstall(8).

### Project: Vision Accessibility

Milestone 2: TUI high contrast theme.

#### **Overall Status:** On track
#### **Summary**

New high-contrast theme for TUI utilities in the BASE system.
[WIP repository](https://gitlab.com/alfix/freebsd-accessibility).

**Weekly Work Report:**

- Improved and completed the "No-Red" (black, blue, cyan, white, yellow) theme.
- Refactor/rewrite the _theme_ script.
- Inserting the _theme_ script into bsdinstall(8) on my laptop.
- Add theme.spinbox.f_color and theme.spinbox.color to bsddialog(3) "theming" API. This API improvement was made for calendar, datebox and timebox dialogs while improving a new high-contrast template.

#### **Completed Tasks**

 - Themes:
    - No-Yellow and No-Blue (black, green, red, white).
    - No-Red (black, blue, cyan, white, yellow).
 - The _theme_ script to select a theme using a menu.

#### **Next Steps**

- Improve/review themes:
   - No-colors: black and white.
   - High Contrast: black, white, magenta, and yellow.
- Call for testing for the themes.
- Move theming features from bsddialog to libbsddialog.
- Improve theming: library and theme files.
- Release bsddialog 1.2, import in base and port.
- Review to add theme menu to bsdinstall.
