# March 2026 Status Update for Alfonso S. Siciliano

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-25 - 2026-03-10

### Project: KDE installer dialogs
#### **Overall Status:** On Track for 15.1
#### **Summary**

The idea is: a user installs KDE at the end of bsdinstall through a series of dialog-based interfaces.
After rebooting, sddm starts and the user can log into the graphical environment.
[Repository](https://gitlab.com/alfix/kde-installer-dialogs).

**Weekly Work Report:**

- Fixed issues and implemented feature requests reported on GitLab and GitHub.
- Refactor NVIDIA configurations.
- Add dialog to install NVIDIA add-ons and set up linux compatibility.
- Forum discussion [Nvidia Driver Linux compatibility](https://forums.freebsd.org/threads/nvidia-driver-question-on-linux-compat.101644/#post-748720).

#### **Completed Tasks**

 - The script installs and set up: gpu driver, xorg, KDE Plasma, and sddm after a fresh installation.

#### **Features Delivered**

 - The _desktop_ script, tested with: VESA, SCFB, Intel, and AMD.
 - Added menu to select NVIDIA GPUs (tested via Call for Testing).
 - GPU auto-detection.
 - VirtualBox option in GPU menu, auto-detection, and pkgs installation.
 - VmWare option in GPU menu, auto-detection, and pkgs installation.
 - Add Option to install extra NVIDIA GPUs tools (tested via forum).

#### **Challenges**

 - Testing GPU drivers, mainly NVIDIA.

#### **Next Steps**

 - Fix the Ly Display Manager and the display manager dialog menu.
 - Adapt the script to bsdinstall and review for CURRENT.
