# January 2026 Status Update for Alfonso S. Siciliano

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-14 - 2021-01-20

### Project: Vision Accessibility

Milestone: TUI high contrast theme.

#### **Overall Status:** On track
#### **Summary**

New high-contrast theme for TUI utilities in the BASE system.

#### **Completed Tasks**

 - A script to select a theme using a menu.

#### **Next Steps**

 - Complete themes.
 - Move theming features from bsddialog(1) to bsddialog(3).
 - Adapt the script to select a theme to bsdinstall.
 - Review for CURRENT.

### Project: KDE installer dialogs
#### **Overall Status:** On Track for 15.1
#### **Summary**

The idea is: a user installs KDE at the end of bsdinstall through a series of dialog-based interfaces.
After rebooting, sddm starts and the user can log into the graphical environment.
[Repository](https://gitlab.com/alfix/kde-installer-dialogs).

This week the script some issue have been addressed.
A Call For Testing is available: [gitlab](https://gitlab.com/alfix/kde-installer-dialogs/-/blob/main/cft.md) and [github](https://github.com/alfonsosiciliano/kde-installer-dialogs/blob/main/cft.md).

#### **Completed Tasks**

 - The script installs and set up: xorg, KDE Plasma, and sddm after a fresh installation.

#### **Features Delivered**

 - The _desktop_ script, tested with: VESA, SCFB, Intel, and AMD.
 - Added (untested) menu to select NVIDIA GPUs.

#### **Challenges**

 - Testing GPU drivers.
 - GPU auto-detection.

#### **Next Steps**

 - Add VirtualBox.
 - Add VMware.
 - Adapt the script to bsdinstall.
 - Review for CURRENT.

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**

https://gitlab.com/alfix/kde-installer-dialogs/-/issues
