# May 2026 Status Update for Alfonso S. Siciliano

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-05-06 - 2026-05-12

### Project: KDE installer dialogs
#### **Overall Status:** Late for 15.1, On Track for 15.2
#### **Summary**

The idea is: a user installs KDE at the end of bsdinstall through a series of dialog-based interfaces.
After rebooting, sddm starts and the user can log into the graphical environment.
[Repository](https://gitlab.com/alfix/kde-installer-dialogs).

**Weekly Work Report:**

No functional shortcomings or logical errors were reported during the review.
However, some parts are obsolete and no longer necessary, so they should be removed before committing to CURRENT. In addition, a new version of the NVIDIA 595 drivers has been released and has already been added to Ports and packages.
Although the script has been tested on both CURRENT and STABLE 15.0, and some users also tested it on RELEASE during the Call for Testing, after the commit to CURRENT it will be necessary to wait some time before merging to STABLE. Therefore, the script will be available for 15.2.

#### **Completed Tasks**

 - The script installs and set up: gpu driver, xorg, KDE Plasma, and sddm after a fresh installation.
 - The script integrated in a generated ISO installs the GUI environment via bsdinstall.
 - [Review](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56167) to add the script in the installer.
 - Quarterly status report [announcement](https://www.freebsd.org/status/report-2026-01-2026-03/#_desktop_script_for_bsdinstall) to encourage participation in the Call for Testing.

#### **Features Delivered**

 - The _desktop_ script, tested with: VESA, SCFB, Intel, and AMD.
 - Added menu to select NVIDIA GPUs (tested via Call for Testing).
 - GPU auto-detection.
 - VirtualBox option in GPU menu, auto-detection, and pkgs installation.
 - VmWare option in GPU menu, auto-detection, and pkgs installation.
 - Add Option to install extra NVIDIA GPUs tools (tested via forum).
 - The _desktop.bsdinstall_ script, to install GPU drivers and KDE during a BSDInstall session.

#### **Challenges**

 - Testing GPU drivers, mainly NVIDIA.

#### **Next Steps**

- Add the script to bsdinstall(8) in CURRENT.
