# 11 2025 Status Update for Roman Bogorodskiy

## **Reporting Period:** [2025-11-10] - [2025-11-16]

### Project: libvirt on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

This week I merged my patches that were under review.

Also, made some iterations on the
[resume bug](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=290735),
without success.

While working on that, noticed that `bhyvectl --suspend` exit code 0
does not necessarly mean successful suspend, so extend my code with
additional checks that the suspend artifacts are up to date.

Also started working on the [nodedev](https://libvirt.org/drvnodedev.html)
patch that re-implements parts of PCI-related code to use
libpciaccess. This patch is not quite complete as some bits of the PCI code still
use Linux sysfs, and also unit tests are not working
properly as libpciaccess code is not mocked. I have mocked
some of the libpciaccess routines, but there's still quite a bit
of work to make this running. At this point I have
some doubts whether this is a good approach, maybe
it will make more sense to create a new nodedev driver for
FreeBSD. I plan to fiddle with the current approach a bit longer
before making a decision.

#### **Completed Tasks**

 * Merged documentation updates
 * Merged NVMe device queue configuration attributes

#### **Blockers**

Same as before.

#### **Next Steps**

Figure out how to proceed with the nodedev driver.

---

## **Reporting Period:** [2025-11-03] - [2025-11-09]

### Project: libvirt on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

This week I've merged the previously approved libvirt patches.
Updated the libvirt port to the new release, and updated the related ports
(Python and Perl bindings).

Updated the [libvirt documentation](https://libvirt.org/drvbhyve.html)
to describe passthrough support, along with other minor fixes,
which is [on review](https://lists.libvirt.org/archives/list/devel@lists.libvirt.org/thread/7TYN7PI7E66UAF5ZOJWXOWGYB2S4KBBE/)
now.

Started working on specifying queue options for the NVMe devices, hope
to complete this next week. 

#### **Completed Tasks**

 * Merged PCI passthrough support,
 * Merged domain startup error handling improvement,
 * Updated libvirt port to 11.9.0, and related ports.

#### **Blockers**

Same as before + created a bug report for the
[resume issue](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=290735).

#### **Next Steps** 

I plan to complete the patches I've started working on. Once complete, need to pick up
work on the [nodedev](https://libvirt.org/drvnodedev.html) support which is used
to manage host devices (including configuring them for passthrough).
