# December 2025 Status Update for Joe Mingrone

## Reporting Period: 2025-12-15 - 2025-12-21

### Miscellaneous

- Completed additional review of a FreeBSD Journal article, now ready for publication.
- Ports work:
  - `ffb64ba4a059` - sysutils/cpu-microcode-amd: update to 2025-12-02 snapshot
  - `D54305` - biology/py-biom-format: update to 2.1.17 (converted to PEP 517 / wheels, so took some tinkering, for me anyway)
  - Contacted the net-im/signal maintainer regarding a minor issue, which was promptly fixed
  - Performed minor reviews
- Ordered additional cluster hardware:
  - One Altra system (160 cores, 256 GB RAM) is now online building arm64 packages.
  - A second order will add fast SSDs and upgrade the second Altra to 256 GB RAM so it can also be used for package building.
- Reviewed candidates for a summer intern position.
- Prepared two new contracts.
- Sent reminders for 2025Q4 status reports.
- Attended meetings: handover meeting with Moin and Siva; Tech Programs; Power Management; AMD; Strategy; Anne and Deb.
- Discussed future work with bz@ via email.
- Supported developers by answering questions and assisting with minor tasks (e.g., ref15-aarch64 work, updating permissions on freefall).
- Reviewed a document Florine is preparing that describes 2025 Software Development and Infrastructure Support work.

## Reporting Period: 2025-12-08 - 2025-12-14

### Miscellaneous
- Went through a second round of reviews for a FreeBSD Journal article I'm writing about FreeBSD's participation in Google Summer of Code (GSoC).
- Ports work:
  - Reviewed some Wi-Fi firmware fixes/updates for bz@ after the last round of changes: [D54200](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54200), [D54201](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54201), [D54202](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54202), [D54203](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54203), [D54204](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54204), [D54205](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54205)
  - Minor fixes and port updates:
    - c27408ce9b7f - editors/emacs-devel: Update to 2025-12-15 snapshot
    - 7bc347cd267e - biology/iqtree: Update to 3.0.1
    - b31535fb4ab3 - biology/hyphy: Update to 2.5.90
    - a6c2001ee3d3 - biology/hyphy: Update to 2.5.89
    - e5a8662fe5e2 - devel/bear: Add clang version 21 to wrapper links
    - 6840db43fe12 - devel/bear: Return to pool
      - I dropped maintainership of devel/bear because I'm hopeful that the much simpler devel/compdbgen will be a better long-term solution for generating `compile_commands.json` required by Language Server Protocol (LSP) setups.
- Met with some developers to discuss future work and availability.
- Provided usual internal Foundation support, answering questions via email, Slack, and meetings.
- Clusteradm work:
  - Arranged the shipment of an arm64 system to our newer presence in an NYI data center outside of Chicago.
    It is scheduled to arrive today (2025-12-16).
    Purchased 224 GB of RAM for this system (RAM prices are ridiculous right now).
    The goal is to set this large-core system up as an arm64 package builder so we can publish arm64 packages more quickly.
  - Arranged for the Power systems in the cluster to be shipped to Raptor (Timothy Pearson who is now a new FreeBSD committer.)
