# April 2026 Status Update for Joe Mingrone

## Reporting Period: 2026-04-20 - 2026-04-26

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Ports work

  - Mk/bsd.sites.mk: Add USE_FORGEJO helper variables  
    https://ron-dev.freebsd.org/FreeBSD/ports/pulls/9  
    When a distribution file is to be fetched from a specific commit or tag on
    a Forgejo or Gitea instance, USE_FORGEJO provides helper variables to
    automatically set key variables such as DISTNAME and MASTER_SITES to the
    correct values. It is modelled after USE_GITHUB and USE_GITLAB.  
    Status: Waiting on review
  - porters-handbook: Document USE_FORGEJO  
    https://ron-dev.freebsd.org/FreeBSD/doc/pulls/1  
    Status: Waiting on the ports review
  - Emacs ports: Tweak cache cleanup and native compilation  
    This is WIP to tweak the way the native-compiled elisp cached is cleaned up.
    Also, don't native compile some startup configuration or subdirs.el (for
    setting up load paths).
  - print/pdf-tools: Add pkgconf build dependency and fix configure env
  - devel/forgejo-cli: Make DISTFILE unique to avoid DISTDIR collisions
  - textproc/peg: Set PORTSCOUT to ignore development version
  - textproc/yaml.el: Update to 1.2.3 and take maintainership
  - databases/closql: Clean up and take maintainership
  - databases/pg.el: Update to 0.65 and take maintainership
  - databases/emacsql: Update to 4.3.6, clean up, and take maintainership
  - devel/forge: Update to 0.6.4 and take maintainership
  - devel/ghub: Update to 5.1.0
  - biology/iqtree: Update to 3.1.1
  - textproc/adoc-mode.el: Update to 0.8.0
  - devel/llama.el: Update to 1.0.4
  - devel/treepy.el: Update to 0.1.3 and take maintainership
  - mail/notmuch: PORTREVISION must be set with ?=  
    Someone bumped PORTREVISION on the port, but they did it with = instead of
    ?=, so it broke the build of slave ports like notmuch-emacs.
  - graphics/feh: Update to 3.12.1
  - Reviews
    - Status/2026Q1/intro.adoc: Add introduction
    - java/openjdk25: Update to OpenJDK 25.0.3.
    - net/vpp: Update VPP to 26.02

### Miscellaneous Tasks

- Drafted a few contracts
- Some Hackathon questions/preparation
- Last-minute tweaks to our GSoC rankings.  We find out Thursday how many slots
  we get.
- GSoC mentor meeting with jlduran hosting.
- Attended various meetings (AMD, Tech Programs, Power management, Strategy, Core/FF)

## Reporting Period: 2026-04-13 - 2026-04-19

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Ports commits
  - devel/forgejo-cli [New port]: CLI client for Forgejo
    - fj is usable with our Forgejo instance, but it can be buggy and the design is
      still clunky.
  - editors/emacs: Backport support for tree-sitter 0.26+
  - UPDATING: Add guidance to 20260411 Elisp entry for unclean builds
   This was related to a corner case left over from an Elisp ports overhaul reported last week.
  - editors/emacs-devel: Update to 2026-04-15 snapshot
  - mail/mew-devel: Fix PKGBASE collision with mail/mew
- Pull requests and reviews
  - Pull request: Emacs ports: Tweak cache cleanup and native compilation
    https://ron-dev.freebsd.org/FreeBSD/ports/pulls/7
  - Spent a bit more time helping thj@ with net/vpp update
    (https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56051 and https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56000)

### Miscellaneous Tasks

- Prepared and submitted Foundation entries for 202601 status report
  - status/2026q1: Add FreeBSD Foundation entry
  - status/2026q1: Add Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) entry  (written by Alice, prepared by me)
  - Committed minor fixes to other report entries

### Google Summer of Code (GSoC)

- Answered lots of last-minutes requests related to the ranking deadline.
- Met with Robert to prepare the final rankings, which are now all prepared in the GSoC system.
  We will find out how many FreeBSD projects will be funded on April 30.

## Reporting Period: 2026-03-30 - 2026-04-12

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Committed the Emacs Lisp ports framework in [bc45b7ec889](https://cgit.freebsd.org/ports/commit/?id=bc45b7ec889c7662bbbc64d26b00424db8dcb741)
- editors/emacs-devel: Fixed upstream TRAMP performance regression; also [committed upstream](https://github.com/emacs-mirror/emacs/commit/358a7ba0f6f601ea49fb22dc05e36f4a258c7db4)
- editors/emacs: Unbreak build after devel/tree-sitter update
  This fixes the build, but there are still some run-time issues I'm investigating via bug #294394
- Merged libpcap and tcpdump updates (and an associated fix for ipfwpcap) to stable/14 and stable/15
- Helped thj with net/vpp update (https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56051 and https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56000)

### Google Summer of Code (GSoC)

The application period ended on 2026-03-31.
Held a meeting with all interested mentors to gather input on proposal rankings.
Worked with fuz@ to prepare the rankings, which are due April 21.
We will find out how many FreeBSD projects will be funded on April 30.
