# May 2026 Status Update for Joe Mingrone

## Reporting Period: 2026-05-11 - 2026-05-17

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Ports
    - editors/emacs-devel: Update to 2026-05-17 snapshot
    - biology/diamond: Update to 2.2.0
    - misc/compat.el: Update to 31.0.0.1
    - editors/with-editor: Update to 3.5.0
    - devel/ghub: Update to 5.2.0
    - devel/forge: Update to 0.6.5
    - devel/transient: Update to 0.13.3
    - devel/cond-let: Update to 1.0.0
    - databases/pg.el: Update to 0.66
    - sysutils/cpu-microcode-intel: Update to 2026-05-12 release

      We're getting two different reports of problems after this update:

      1. Some split microcode files used for late loading are missing.  I looked
         into this, and discovered in the Intel SDM, that their microcode files
         can contain an optional extended signature table that can list additional
         processor signatures that are covered by the same blob.

         I made an attempt to read the extended signature table and copy an output
         file for each entry that differs from the primary signature.

         See https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57046 for details.

      2. Some users are reporting that they cannot boot with early microcode
         loading.  I'm at a bit of a loss for this one.  See
         https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=294630 for details.
    - graphics/feh: Update to 3.12.2
    - biology/iqtree: Update to 3.1.2
    - biology/hyphy: Update to 2.5.98
    - biology/diamond: Update to 2.1.25
    - Reviews
      - devel/libks: Add new port
        https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56907

### Miscellaneous Tasks

- GSoC work related to the start of the program:
  - Minor tasks like answering emails from contributors about email aliases and
    wiki accounts.
- Prepared a contract extension
- Contacted Dell about providing us with laptops for testing
- Attended GSoC mentor meeting hosted by jlduran

## Reporting Period: 2026-04-26 - 2026-05-10

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Ports work
  - Mk/bsd.sites.mk: Add USE_FORGEJO helper variables  
    https://ron-dev.freebsd.org/FreeBSD/ports/pulls/9  
    I've made a few tweaks based on suggestions, but I'm still waiting on a
    review from portmgr@.
  - math/R: Update to 4.6.0  
    There was some fallout reported from this update because R 4.6.0 removed
    declarations for some non-API functions from its installed headers, and this
    change did not appear well documented in the NEWS for this release.  Also, R
    4.6.0 switched the default C++ standard to C++20, which exposed an issue.  I
    spent time either fixing some of the affected CRAN ports or shepherding in
    updates from others.
  - biology/iqtree: Fix build with clang 21 (also submitted pull request that
    was accepted upstream)
  - D56913: devel/transient: Update to 0.13.3
- Reviews
  - D56638: Vendor import of smart at 1.0.2
  - D56664: git-arc: Add a draft mode
  - GHPR668: press: Update Foundation blog posts for Jan-May 2026
  - D56709: net/vpp: Add elf_aux_info polyfill
  - D56755: website: Add latest FreeBSD YouTube video to press
  - D56793: net/vpp: Fix distinfo
  - D56788: llvm: Don't install /usr/bin/{gcov,objdump} twice
- Mentoring  
  Started unofficially mentoring Hayzam Sherif  
  Before we begin an official mentoring process, I asked Hayzam to get a few
  dozen ports submissions under his belt, which I will review.

### Miscellaneous Tasks

- GSoC work related to the start of the program:
  - Held introductory meeting
  - Got things set up for projects including wiki pages such as
    https://wiki.freebsd.org/SummerOfCode2026Projects
  - Requested email aliases and wiki accounts
  - Got some contributors set up in Slack
  - Responded to emails
- Attended GSoC mentor meeting hosted by jlduran
- Worked with Oracle to get our JavaPartner account set up so Harald can access
  materials under OCTLA, and to access TCK under OCTLA v4
- Reviewed invoice
- Reviewed BSDCan travel grants
- Wrote a reference letter for a past contractor
- Attended various meetings, including hosting the wireless discussion
