# March 2026 Status Update for Joe Mingrone

## Reporting Period: 2026-03-23 - 2026-03-29

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Continued with the Emacs ports infrastructure overhaul:
  - https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56001
  - https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56116

  This overhaul introduces three major changes:

    1. Remove support for packaged byte-compiled elisp.

       The primary motivation is to remove a large number of flavor-specific
       packages and to simplify the ports tree.  As an example, supporting
       byte-compiled elisp for print/pdf-tools required six packages, one
       for each flavor of editors/emacs and editors/emacs-devel.  With over
       100 elisp ports and requests for new Emacs flavors, this was
       unmanageable.

    2. Install configuration that integrates with Emacs's native compilation
       machinery, allowing elisp from ports to be compiled into the standard
       cache under the user's home directory.

       This matches the behavior of GNU ELPA packages and generally results
       in a faster experience.  Reported speedups vary depending on the
       characteristics of the elisp code, but are typically in the range of
       2.5 to 5 times faster compared to byte-compiled code.

    3. Perform byte compilation on the target host when native compilation is
       unavailable.  Compilation is initiated when Emacs starts, and the
       resulting .elc files are cached under the user's home directory.

- Noticed that after haraldei's fix for java/openjdk{25,36} packages in
  ad618043f3d, `pkg upgrade` would not replace installed packages with the new
  ones with the new names.  I added a note to UPDATING with instructions for
  users to work around this by renaming their installed packages.

- Fixes for a few ports
  - Build fix for net/gnu-radius
    e93f6442ef
  - math/coq: Remove USES=emacs and associated flavors
    dbcf335fdb
  - Helped thj with a net/vpp update to 26.02
    https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56051

### Google Summer of Code (GSoC)

The application period ends today (2026-03-31).
Along with fuz, I am continuing to respond to GSoC queries.

## Reporting Period: 2026-03-16 - 2026-03-22

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Started working on an Emacs ports infrastructure overhaul: https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56001
  The next review will cover updates to individual ports that rely on Emacs; this work is about halfway complete.
  The outcome will be a much simpler Emacs ports infrastructure that removes ~500 packages, with minimal loss of functionality aside from faster elisp in some corner cases.
- Routine port updates and a few reviews.

### Google Summer of Code (GSoC)

The application period is now in full swing.
I am continuing to respond to emails, collaborating with others to develop new project ideas, and reviewing proposals.

### Miscellaneous

- More tasks to prepare for the upcoming Halifax Hackathon in June.
- More time reviewing summer intern candidates from the University of Waterloo.

## Reporting Period: 2026-03-01 - 2026-03-15

### Miscellaneous Development Work

- Updated some of our vendor code, with a goal to continue minimizing the diff between our copies and upstream's code.
  - tcpdump: Update to 4.99.6
  - libpcap: Update to 1.10.6
  - ipfwpcap: Fix build after libpcap 1.10.6 update
- share/mk/src.libnames.mk: Sort _DP entries (requested by des)
- Ports work
  - devel/freebsd-git-arc: Update to 2026-02-18 snapshot
  - sysutils/smart: Update to 1.0.0
  - lang/fennel: Update to 1.6.1
  - editors/emacs-devel: Update to 2026-03-16 snapshot
  - Reviewed a few ports changes/fixes

### Google Summer of Code (GSoC)

The application period for contributors is now open and closes on March 31 at 18:00 UTC, so many interested candidates are contacting us.
I'm doing my best to respond to everyone, and connect potential candidates with projects and mentors.
I'm also working with a potential contributor on a NanoBSD project (along with ashish, jlduran, and imp).
We met a few times, and while I added the project idea to the wiki, jlduran has really taken the reins, even giving a NanoBSD workshop on Discord.

### Non-technical Work

- Prepared contracts and extensions
- Met with a developer about a potential contract
- Helped review intern candidates
- At the end of 2025, when I installed FreeBSD on a new laptop, I used ZFS native encryption for my home directory.
  At the time, there was no manual page for pam_zfs_key, so I spent some time investigating how to make this work.
  I published my notes here: https://ftfl.ca/blog/2025-12-28-seamless-login-logout-with-a-zfs-encrypted-home-directory.html.
