# April 2026 Status Update for Olivier Certner

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-29 - 2026-05-05

### Graphics / DRM \[Laptop Project\]
- Review [D56443](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56443) ("linuxkpi: Add
  `rwsem_is_contended()`") as per `dumbbell@` request.  The use of atomic
  operations to keep track of waiters in the current state is a requirement for
  correctness.  But there is in fact no need to maintain manually the number of
  current waiters, `sx(9)` locks can already provide this information.  Provide
  a snippet doing that as an example.  Approve after such changes.
- Review [D56585](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56585) ("linuxkpi: Define
  `VFM_*()` macros in <asm/cpu_device_id.h>"): Approve, make some comments.

### Power / Suspend-to-idle (S0ix) \[Laptop Project\]
- Review [D54882](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54882) ("intelthermal: Add Intel
  Processor Thermal driver"): Do a lot of research to conclude that this driver
  cannot work because (once again, see
  [D54881](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54881)) the registers are not accessed
  in the proper space (they are so in the first BAR whereas they should be read
  from memory at) and at the wrong offsets. Suspecting about the author "vibe
  coding", state that the work I have been doing should have been performed by
  the author.  He denies "vibe coding", but my point remains.
- `acpi_spmc(4)`: Polishing, more debugging information, better integration with
  the bus/device infrastructure
  - Create [D56756](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56756) ("acpi_spmc(4):
    Human-readably print supported DSMs and their functions") to allow users to
    more clearly and quickly understand what is going on with `acpi_spmc(4)`.
  - Split the previous, which contains too many entangled changes, into
    revisions [D56798](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56798) to
    [D56805](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56805), which now precede the initial
    revision in the stack.
  - Create revisions [D56806](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56806) to
    [D56818](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56818) to implement the following
    points, add them to the same stack.
  - After a discussion with `imp@` and some reflection, because the `PNP0D80`
    ACPI device is de-facto used to hold suspend-to-idle-related DSM, move
    detection of present DSMs into attach, and fail there if none is detected.
    If we ever need to have "sub-drivers" for `PNP0D80`, we could later have it
    claimed by a new bus driver to which this driver (and others) would attach.
  - This in turn allows to break the softc dependency between probe and attach,
    allowing probe to return the nominal `BUS_PROBE_DEFAULT` value (in passing
    enabling overriding this driver with another one).
  - Print supported DSMs first, before the functions supported per DSM (top-down
    approach, as common when detecting devices).
  - Remove the limitation that a single instance of `acpi_spmc(4)` may exist by
    moving DSM-specific state from the DSM descriptors into the softc.
  - Some more work in progress:
    - A proposal to be less verbose (except on verbose boot).
    - Stop calling DSM functions that are not enumerated.

### `mac_do(4)`/`mdo(1)`
Continue the work to put the GSoC 2025's "executable paths" task in shape for
commit, but give up on the idea of integrating it into 15.1, this is definitely
too risky and I do not have enough time to do emergency support in case things
go wrong in `releng/15.1`.

- Document the consistency users can expect when fiddling with configurations
  higher up in the jail tree when the current jail is inheriting (it is weaker
  than sequential consistency, but still reasonable).
- Fix the concurrent update problem mentioned in the previous report by
  serializing not only the update to some particular jail's configuration, but
  also the preparation phase of such an update, by temporarily setting the
  configuration pointer to a placeholder value (`frozen_conf`) which other
  threads trying to access the configuration will wait on (this allows to
  release the prison mutex in the meantime).
- Tests on a bunch of jail hierarchies and configuration, with and without
  inheritance.
- Last step: Integrate automated tests based on Kushagra's work.

### MFC to `stable/15`
Just before `releng/15.1` is branched.

- [D52885](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D52885) ("style.9: Encourage style
  changes when doing significant modifications")
- [D56108](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56108) ("vfs: Simplify
  vfs_write_resume()/vn_start_write_refed()")
- [D56227](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56227) ("netstat(1): On '-w', print
  statistics also on banner printing")
- Commit [4c6d8aa069f2](https://cgit.freebsd.org/src/commit/?id=4c6d8aa069f2)
  ("chroot.2: "filedescriptors" => "file descriptors"")

### Security
- Review [D56763](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56763) ("mac_veriexec_priv_check
  block proc_write_*regs*"): The author's way of accessing the current
  credentials is wrong, explain why and show how to fix it.


## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-15 - 2026-04-28

Grouping two periods as I was off for a week.

### Power / Suspend-to-idle (S0ix) \[Laptop Project\]
- Review [D54881](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54881) ("intel/intelpmc: Add
  Intel PMC Core driver"): Reject the current patch as it does not access the
  registers of interest correctly (instead, it leads to reading some unrelated
  PCI configuration space); also question the usefulness of some of the
  registers it intends to read.
- Review loosely related [D54882](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54882)
  ("intelthermal: Add Intel Processor Thermal driver"): Request changing the
  name to `intel_thermal(4)` (see `srcmgr@` discussion below).
- Create [D56483](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56483) ("acpi_spmc(4): Small
  probe improvements/fixes"), commit it after review by `obiwac@`.

### Dynamic P-state support (CPPC) \[Laptop Project\]
- [D56305](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56305) ("hwpstate_amd: Cache cpuid."):
  Quick review, approve.

### `mac_do(4)`/`mdo(1)`
A lot of work (unfortunately...) going on to put the GSoC 2025's "executable
paths" task in shape for commit before 15.1 is branched.

- Accept an empty executable paths string (effectively disabling `mac_do(4)`).
  This is useful for symmetry with rules and allows to have a disabling
  configuration that provides a useful default.
- Fix some places where the design of the semantics of passed (or not passed)
  jail-specific parameters (rules and the new executable paths) I had described
  to Kushagra was not obeyed: Passing an empty value must be equivalent to
  disabling, and in particular treated differently from not passing a value at
  all, which is interpreted as a request to use the configuration applicable to
  the parent jail or the current jail depending on the context (the latter is
  used if modifying parameters on a jail that already has its own
  configuration).
- Fix releasing a nonexistent reference on configuration parsing error (causing
  a memory leak).
- More fixes to comments.
- There are still a few subtle concurrency issues (when two threads are
  modifying some configuration, directly or indirectly through inheritance),
  working to solve them (or at least, most of them).
- Will have to work on the manual page at some point, but that can wait until we
  are late in 15.1's release schedule.
- Give up for now on introducing better memory management of configurations to
  share more structures and avoid copying rules/executable paths from model
  configurations, which would also remove artificial limitations on the
  number/size of paths, as these changes are not necessary for correctness and
  we have other priorities.

### `srcmgr@` Lurker
- Raise two questions/issues:
  - SPDX after copyright is inconsistent with the majority of our files (whether
    they have the full license text or not).  I'd like to switch to always have
    SPDX first in the file.  Additionally, we have inconsistent documentation on
    this topic (committers guide, website, etc.).

    Answer by `imp@`: Requesting SPDX after copyright when the license text is
    elided (thus, in this case, the SPDX tag is "controlling") was done years
    ago after a survey of open-source projects.

    However, today in our tree, whether we include contrib files or not, and
    whether we count files having license text or not, SPDX then copyright is
    always the majority.

    `imp@` says he will work on re-uniting documents, will still continue
    promoting Copyright + SPDX (on no license text) but will tolerate the
    opposite order.

  - Can we use driver names with underscores between words? `jhb@` answers this
    is not forbidden.  I however would like more: That it becomes the new norm.
- Meeting.

### stable/15 QA on an Intel Framework
- Stumble on the timerfd bug (fixed in the meantime; see the
  [advisory](https://www.freebsd.org/security/advisories/FreeBSD-EN-26:06.timerfd.asc)).
- Cannot seem to get hardware 3D acceleration with `graphics/drm-latest-kmod`
  (perhaps this is due to having built it with LLVM 21 instead of the default
  LLVM 19?).  Need to try `graphics/drm-66-kmod` instead.to see if that makes
  a difference.

### Misc
- Create commit
  [4c6d8aa069f2](https://cgit.freebsd.org/src/commit/?id=4c6d8aa069f2)
  ("chroot.2: "filedescriptors" => "file descriptors"").

### Review of Others' Work
- [D56485](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56485) ("RELNOTES: Add entries for
  various commits through early March 2026"): Point out a typo.


## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-08 - 2026-04-14

### Power / Suspend-to-idle (S0ix) \[Laptop Project\]
- [D55118](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D55118) ("acpi: Parse _S3D s2idle instead
  of _S255D"): Approve after latest changes.
- Read the ACPI specification about `_LPI` objects (seen on some AMD machines)
  and the separate Intel specification about the ACPI `LPIT` table (seen on some
  Intel machines).  These contain information about Low-Power Idle states.
- A priori we do not really need to implement support for `_LPI` objects on AMD
  platforms to support S0ix at this point (at least for our target platform), as
  it seems that Low-Power Idle states and C states in ACPI are just in the end
  mapped to the same processor C states (and ACPI also allows
  backwards-compatibility for OSes that do not support `_LPI` objects and other
  ones related to Low-Power Idle) by tolerating idle states in `_CST` objects).
  However, this needs confirmation, e.g., by examining the ACPI tables and
  namespace on more machines, and perhaps also by having FreeBSD indicate
  support via `_OSC`.  Besides an "entry point" and residency counter
  information, `_LPI` objects have an "Arch. Context Lost Flags", which
  fortunately must always be 0 on `amd64` (contrary to ARM), and a way to convey
  information on how to request "composite states" (where the system/package
  levels above cores could be requested separately, if not "autopromoted").
- The `LPIT` tables we have seen in practice do not seem to be filled completely
  correctly.  In particular, Entry Triggers do not match any `_CST` object's
  register, and the Residency Counter Frequency may not be filled correctly
  either.  The safer solution here to get residency counters is to implement
  a driver.
- Start reviewing [D54881](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54881) ("intel/intelpmc:
  Add Intel PMC Core driver"), whose main purpose is to provide information on
  entering Low-Power Idle states, in particular give access to the lowest
  processor's C state residency counter.  The drawback of this approach is that
  we need specific code/constants for each generation of Intel PCH, but it seems
  we don't have a solid alternative, given the `LPIT` tables we have seen in
  practice (as explained above).  Read part of the corresponding Linux code to
  have an idea of where this would head.
- Work in progress on `acpi_spmc(4)`, aimed at giving clearer debugging
  information, such as human-readable presentation of which DSMs are present and
  which methods are reported on them.  Some minor fixes.
- Testing on my Framework Intel laptop (VT use, no Xorg nor Wayland):
  - Idle consumption, no DRM driver: ~700 to 800mA.
  - S0ix, no DRM driver: Screen does not turn off, the power button blinks.
    A 30-min S0ix test does not show any significant battery drain difference
    with idle S0.
  - Idle consumption, with DRM driver: ~300 to 400mA.
  - On S0ix entry, with DRM driver (6.9 (equivalent to
    `graphics/drm-latest-kmod`) or `main`) screen turns black (but is still
    powered) and the laptop seems to hang completely.

### Admin
- Write FreeBSD Q1 report for the "Power / Hibernate (S4)" project.  See
  revision [D56319](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56319)
  ("Status/2026Q1/hibernate.adoc: Add report.").
- Write FreeBSD Q1 report for the "Dynamic P-state support (CPPC)" project.  See
  revision [D56320](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56320)
  ("Status/2026Q1/cppc.adoc: Add report").

### Review of Others' Work
- Approve [D56327](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56327) ("tools/build/Makefile:
  Always add md4.h to SYSINCS") that fixes a build error we had reported to
  `ivy@`.
- Review [D56343](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56343) ("tunefs: Fix pointer
  arithmetic"): Suggest some possible simplification, but in the end it is not
  applicable.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-01 - 2026-04-07

Easter week-end + other stuff => reduced workload.

### Power / Suspend-to-idle (S0ix) \[Laptop Project\]
- Review [D56062](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56062) ("acpi_spmc: Call new MS
  turn on display DSM"): Approve after the change to test the unit in the probe
  function (see previous period).
- Have a peek at all commits in `obiwac@`'s current S0ix branch, to know what's
  cooking, which pieces I should learn about and review and then determine what
  could possibly be missing.
- Start testing S0ix on an Intel Framework Laptop, based on `main` and some
  commits cherry-picked from `obiwac@`'s branch (corresponding to review
  [D55118](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D55118) ("acpi: Parse _S3D s2idle instead
  of _S255D")).  I can get the laptop to suspend/resume without crashes, but the
  screen stays on although the power button blinks as expected.  Next steps:
  Figure out why the screen stays on, possibly apply some other external
  revisions to get statistics and have the system enter deeper states, and
  measure the battery usage while sleeping.
- Approve [D55118](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D55118) ("acpi: Parse _S3D s2idle
  instead of _S255D") with a suggestion.

### Scheduler
- Comment on review [D44455](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D44455) ("intelhfi -
  Intel TD/HFI driver - Part3: Add CPU core performance/efficiency score
  variable to SMP's cpu_group struct.") to explain to the author why the current
  choice of having score in `struct cpu_group` implementation is conceptually
  wrong, and why the part of the change in review
  [D44456](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D44456) ("intelhfi - Intel TD/HFI
  driver - Part4: Add intelhfi driver's source-code & Makefile.") filling the
  internal structures on them consequently is wrong in practice (see
  investigation done at AsiaBSDCon in March).  Minsoo had already summarized
  these points (we discussed about these reviews together during AsiaBSDCon).

### Misc
- Create [D56227](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56227) ("netstat(1): On '-w',
  print statistics also on banner printing"): Initially, I thought that, on each
  new banner printing, the statistics line was omitted, causing an uneven time
  series to be reported. Fix change of behavior concerning the first statistics
  line reported by `glebius@` (it would be output immediately, and be full of
  0 most of the time, as the two samples were taken without waiting for an
  interval). After more investigation, a statistics line was indeed printed on
  banner printing, but before it, which was very confusing. The change here
  ensures that a new banner is printed only if a new statistics line is going to
  be printed just after it.
