# June 2026 Status Update for Olivier Certner

For the very beginning of June, see previous month's status report.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-06-03 - 2026-06-09

### Power / Hibernate (S4) \[Laptop Project\]
- Rebase the "Create the image" branch (`oc-hibernate`) published ~3 months ago,
  in particular adapting it to the new power state types.
- In the course of this work, create a number of commits to fix power/ACPI bugs
  and ease further modifications, notably:
  - [D57412](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57412) ("acpi: Fix panic when
    reading 'hw.acpi.suspend_state' knob on S1/S2")
  - [D57413](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57413) ("acpi: Move supported states
    arrays into the softc")
  - [D57414](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57414) ("acpi: Forbid requesting S4
    when S4BIOS is not supported")
  - Full series in [my GitHub
    repo](https://github.com/OlCe2/freebsd-src/compare/main...ffe6e2cbd02a260c5f).
- From the rebased `oc-hibernate` branch, isolate changes about ELF headers
  (type, content) into two separate commits, shareable with `kib@`'s loader
  branch (`hiber`), and do the impacts.
- Fix bugs in and around triggering image saving (and more bugs in `acpi.c`),
  including wrong reported size of program headers, not freeing trampoline memory
  (allocated for the loader) in case of suspend bounce, etc.
- Work on an early prototype of resume in the kernel, once the loader has handed
  off control, in order to check see what is involved on the kernel side and
  that the interface with the loader is viable.  Make slight amendments to that
  interface as discussed last week with `kib@`.
- Propose amendments to the `hiber` branch: Integrate there the two same commits
  from `oc-hibernate`, and amend the existing code to use the new definitions.
- Generate a new hibernate dump image.  Extract the ELF file from it and check
  that the ELF headers and the program headers have the expected content.
- Send to `kib@` an email explaining where to download the new ELF image, and
  where to find the current `oc-hibernate` and updated `hiber` branches.
- Start working on BSDCan 2026's presentation.

### Dynamic P-state support (CPPC) \[Laptop Project\]
- [PR 295793](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=PR 295793)
  ("powerd is unaware of new CPPC and EPP controls") : Prompted by a discussion
  on the `current@` mailing list. Take the bug and add a comment saying we will
  work on it during the next hackathon.

### Laptop Project Admin
- Attend the Power weekly meeting.
- Attend the monthly Iteration Planning meeting.

### Reviews of Others' Work
- [D57252](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57252) ("libc: Constify the getcap
  API"): Some suggestion on the style of declarations with multiple levels of
  pointers.
- [D57498](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57498) ("imgact_elf: handle unaligned
  phdrs"): Approve, ask whether printing a warning would be worth it.
