# February 2026 Status Update for Hans Rosenfeld

[//]: <Week 9>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-02-23] - [2026-03-01]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**
Reworked the previous CPUID mechanism to allow for a more flexible
configuration language. Here's an example:

```
cpuid.0x00000001=edx|=0x00040000
cpuid.0x00000003=ecx=0x01234567,edx=0x89abcdef
vcpu.1.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x10000000
vcpu.2.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x20000000
vcpu.3.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x30000000
vcpu.4.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x40000000
vcpu.5.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x50000000
vcpu.6.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x60000000
vcpu.7.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x70000000
vcpu.8.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x80000000
vcpu.9.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0x90000000
vcpu.10.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0xa0000000
vcpu.11.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0xb0000000
vcpu.12.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0xc0000000
vcpu.13.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0xd0000000
vcpu.14.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0xe0000000
vcpu.15.cpuid.0x00000003=ecx|=0xf0000000
cpuid.0x0000000b,0=edx=0xffffffff
cpuid.0x0000000b,1=edx=0xeeeeeeee
cpuid.0x0000000b,2=edx=0xdddddddd
```
This enables the Processor Serial Number (0x00000001, EDX bit 18) feature on
all vCPUs and sets a default serial of 0x01234567, 0x89abcef.

On each vCPU other than vCPU 0, it overwrites one digit of the serial number
with the vCPU ID so that each vCPU has a unique serial number.

The last three assignments don't make any sense. Leaf 0x0000000b contains
topology information in all indices, and register EDX always contains the
x2APIC ID of the vCPU.

I also started work on implementing support for specifying x86 architecture
levels:
```
cpuid.archlevel=v1
```
This will disable all features of x86 architecture level v2 to v3.

#### **Completed Tasks**
Extended configuration syntax to allow changing individual CPUID bits and
registers.

#### **Next Steps**
Finish the arch level support. One of the things that it should IMHO do is to
check whether the enabled architecture level is even supported on the host
CPU, refusing to enable feature bits of features unsupported by the hardware.
This could even go further and just AND all hardware CPUID feature bits with
the configured values.

[//]: <Week 8>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-02-16] - [2026-02-22]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** Delayed
#### **Summary**
Making progress on the implementation of the "sparse" CPUID configuration.
Implemented functions to fetch CPUID information from the "legacy" CPUID
emulation in the bhyve kernel code and to simplify assembling a complete
CPUID configuration set based on either "legacy" CPUID values or config
options.
#### **Open Questions and Discussion**
A lot of this code can be shared between bhyve and bhyvectl, but it doesn't
really belong into libvmmapi as it isn't really part of the VMM API.

Does anyone think it would wrong to create a libbhyve for such code? If not
I'll just do that.

[//]: <Week 7>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-02-09] - [2026-02-15]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** Delayed
#### **Summary**

Began work on the CPUID configuration and emulation code to allow for
"sparse" configurations. I intend to handle this in a way that preferably
needs little change to the kernel code as was provided by illumos:
- build a complete CPUID configuration that is identical to what the kernel
  would emulate for the host CPU
- make static per-VCPU adjustments
- override individual components of the CPUID data with using an extended
  configuration syntax that allows overriding of individual register values
  returned, either by overriding complete registers (`=`), or by
  masking/setting individual bits (`|=`, `&=`):

  `config.0x00000000,0x00=eax&=0x00003000,eax|=0x00001000,ecx=0x12345678`

  This would mask and then set bits in EAX, assign ECX, and leave the rest intact
  as reported by the hardware and modified by CPUID emulation in the kernel.

#### **Next Steps**
Finish and test the above.

The next step after that will introduce presets based on x86 architecture levels.

### Miscellaneous
#### **Summary**
Got called to help with a ZFS emergency on OmniOS by another customer, which
ate into my time for CPUID last week.

#### **Completed Tasks**
My VirtIO-SCSI work landed in illumos. :-)

Code review has resumed on the FreeBSD side. Thanks!

[//]: <Week 6>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-02-02] - [2026-02-08]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** Delayed
#### **Summary**
Not much happened last week as I was tied up with other tasks, such as getting
the VirtIO-SCSI work on illumos out the door.

#### **Next Steps**
Adapt the CPUID configuration and emulation code to allow for "sparse"
configurations.  This can be handled by extending the CPUID emulation to look
up CPUID values from the configuration, and only falling back to a native CPUID
instruction if none exists.

### Miscellaneous
#### **Summary**
I've finished the code review on the illumos side of things for the VirtIO-SCSI
project, things are ready for integration on their side.

Thanks Ed for committing the first bunch of changes for FreeBSD.

If anyone has interest in VirtIO-SCSI or spare cycles for review, there are a
few more (and bigger) changes that still need reviewing:

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53468
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53469
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53470

The following reviews will be updated shortly to match the latest state in illumos
and also still need review:

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53221
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53222
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53223
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54073

[//]: <> (##########################################################)
