# April 2026 Status Update for Hans Rosenfeld

[//]: <Week 17>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-04-21] - [2026-04-26]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**
Re-implemented x86 architecture level support in a more generic way that can
also be used to implement all kinds of actual CPU models.

The CPU model (or arch level) can now be selected with the new `model=<name>` parameter
of the `-c` option for the CPU configuration.
Since the existing CPU configuration is completely machine-independent, the
machine-dependent part now parses any additional parameters of this flag.
The `model=<name>` parameter is specific to x86 for now.
All it does is loading a configuration file  `/usr/share/bhyve/cpu/<name>.cfg`
in addition to any other configuration files or options given by the user.

The configuration file syntax has been extended by a `include` directive that
includes another configuration file, either specified by a full path or relative
to the directory of the configuration containing the `include`.

For now, I've implemented the 4 x86 architecture levels as pre-defined CPU
configurations, where each config file for architecture level includes the
config file for the next lower level.
The lowest level, x86-64-v1, includes a special config file clearing all CPU
features.

In order to prevent enabling of an unsupported architecture level, the CPUID
configuration mechanism has been extended to verify each CPUID register setting
against a list of constraints such as bits that may only be cleared and bits
that may not be changed at all.

#### **Next Steps**
I intend to add an easy override mechanism for the CPUID constraints, allowing
any and all modifications of the CPUID data by the user if that's what they want.

I intend to add more configuration files for various CPU architectures, similar
to what Qemu supports.


### Miscellaneous
#### **Completed Tasks**
The `__maybe_unused` definition for `sys/cdefs.h` has been accepted in review.
Thanks Minsoo Choo!

The virtio-scsi work should be ready for acceptance as well:
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D55803

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53221

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53222

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53223

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54073


[//]: <Week 16>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-04-13] - [2026-04-20]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**
Worked on the x86 architecture level support.
This can now be configured using a `cpuid.archlevel=[[x86-64-]v]X` option,
with `X` taking values from 1 to 4.
If any x86 architecture level is configured, all features beyond v1 will be
disabled and then selective re-enabled up to the desired level.
This means that extra features introduced after the v4 baseline was specified
will also be disabled.
Also, each enabled feature will be checked against the host CPU, making it
impossible to enable an architecture level unuspported by the host CPU.

#### **Next Steps**
Hypervisor signature override.
#### **Open Questions and Discussion**
While looking at implementing particular CPU types similar to what Qemu does,
it occured to me that this will quickly get out of hand if implemented in C
in the bhyve source.
Given that I introduced a quite flexible configuration syntax for the CPUID
values previously, it seems to make more sense to implement predefined CPUID
settings for individual CPU types as config file snippets instead.
This can of course also be used for the x86 architecture levels, which are just
generic CPU models anyway.

I intend to extend the existing machine-independent CPU topology configuration
to allow for machine-dependent extensions, such as a `model` specifier for
x86-64.
In the configuration, this will look like this:

```
# bhyve [...] -c sockets=2,cores=8,threads=2,model=x86-64_arch_v3 [...]
```

This will cause `/usr/share/bhyve/cpu/x86-64_arch_v3.cfg` to be loaded as a
config file in addition to any other config files specified on the command line
using the `-k` parameter.

### Miscellaneous
#### **Completed Tasks**
- I added the `__maybe_unused` to `sys/cdefs.h`, currently pending review.
  If anyone wants to take a look, it can be found here:
  https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56517

The remaining virtio-scsi changes have been rebased on top of this:
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D55803

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53221

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53222

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53223

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54073

All of these changes can be found in the bhyve-virtio-scsi branch on my github:
https://github.com/hrosenfeld/freebsd-src/tree/bhyve-virtio-scsi


[//]: <Week 15>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-04-06] - [2026-04-12]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**
Worked on completing the x86 architecture level support.
Two things are needed to complete it:

- Prevent setting of unsupported x86 architecture level by
  verifying all feature bits corresponding to a level are
  supported by the host CPU.
- Make sure that no feature bits unknown/undefined at build
  time remain enabled in the CPUID configuration. This means
  that I'll need to build a list of as-of-yet unused feature
  bits in known feature CPUID leaves and clear them. This list
  needs to be kept up-to-date as hardware vendors invent more
  features. I'm not entirely sure at this time how to handle
  as-of-yet unknown CPUID leaves, as that would require building
  a list of known CPUID leaves per arch level, which may still
  vary between CPU models and generations implementing the same
  arch level.

#### **Completed Tasks**
Wrote my quarterly report for this project. :-)

#### **Next Steps**
- Complete the x86 architecture level support.
- Implement hypervisor signature override.

[//]: <Week 14>
## **Reporting Period:** [2026-03-30] - [2026-04-05]

### Project: Full CPUID Control for bhyve
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**
Nothing happened here last week.

#### **Next Steps**
- prevent setting unsupported x86 architecture level
- implement hypervisor signature override
- write the quarterly report about this work

### Miscellaneous
#### **Summary**
Still trying to get the VirtIO-SCSI work out the door.  Will update
reviews and branches shortly and ping reviewers.

[//]: <> (##########################################################)
