# November 2025 Status Update for Harald Eilertsen

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2025-10-29 - 2025-11-04

### Project: Improve OpenJDK on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

Most of this past week was spent on adding `-jre` and `-headless` flavors to the java/openjdk25 port, as well as testing the flavors by running various Java apps. I've also spent some time on getting an Aarch64 VM up and running locally to enable me to build and test the aarch64 build of the JVM. This is still ongoing.

Also started looking into [Bug 290447](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=290447) about implementing `sun.nio.fs.AbstractWatchService` by using the `kqueue` API on FreeBSD. This should provide better performance than the current generic `PollingWatchService` used currently.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- Added flavors for building jre and headless variant to java/openjdk25 port:
  - Review: [D53450](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53450)
  - Commit: [fe94eea5557](https://cgit.FreeBSD.org/ports/commit/?id=fe94eea55572b109ad291b3607ba59caff917a7e)
- Reviews for others:
  - battleblow/jdk25u: [PR#5: Backport mainline changes](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk25u/pull/5)

#### **Features Delivered**

- `-jre` and `-headless` flavors for java/openjdk25.

#### **Challenges**

- Testing on Aarch64 and PowerPC is lacking at the moment, but work is underway to remedy the situation.

#### **Blockers**

- Still missing push access to openjdk/bsd-port repo.

#### **Next Steps**

- Get up to date on changes in upstream mainline.
- Start looking at OpenJDK 26.

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**

[//]: <> (##########################################################)
