# December 2025 Status Update for Harald Eilertsen

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2025-12-03 - 2025-12-09

### Project: Improve OpenJDK on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

- Tried building OpenJDK and running the jtreg tests for Aarch64 in a emulated
  VM powered by QEMU, but the results are not usable. Building is slow, but
  works. The tests run into timeouts and don't complete because the emulation
  is too slow.
- Updated java/openjdk25 port to version 25.0.1:
  - Review: [D43975](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D53975)
  - Commit: [c8fa124a26dc](https://cgit.freebsd.org/ports/commit/?id=c8fa124a26dc8469ad544e3cf888fa46a24084be)
- Spent most of the week debugging the remaining failing test cases in the Servicability Agent (SA).
- An upstream change in how the SA access threads in the debuggee VM has broken the relevant tests on FreeBSD, as I was already working in this area of the code before this was merged into the battleblow/jdk repo, I'm also now looking into this as well. This causes some disruption of progress, but unsure about how much yet.

#### **Completed Tasks**
#### **Features Delivered**

- Updated java(openjdk25 port to version 25.0.1

#### **Challenges**

- Serviceability Agent broken by upstream change.

#### **Blockers**
#### **Next Steps**

- Fix serviceability agent breakage.
- Fix remaining test failures in Serviceability Agent tests if still relevant.
- Begin work upstream openjdk/bsd-port
- Explore more around package dependencies to resolve jdk/jre/headless issues

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**

[//]: <> (##########################################################)
