# April 2026 Status Update for Harald Eilertsen

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-01 - 2026-04-07

### Project: Improve OpenJDK on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

I've spent a significant part of the past week on learning how to cross compile openjdk for other architectures. In particular building the OpenJDK Zero variant (which builds a version using only C and C++ code, no assembler) that we can use to bootstrap the bootstrap-jdk.

I've also worked on setting up an arm32 build jail on an Aarch64 system, with good help from fuz@. All of this is mainly to be able to produce an openjdk bootstrap jdk to the arm32 openjdk11 port.

Finally, I've also been working on keeping our mainline bsd-port up to date, synced back the changes done in the upstreaming branch, and have explored a mysterious build failure in the latest openjdk25 branch on Aarch64.

#### **Ongoing tasks**

- Bugs:
  - [Bug #294040](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=294040): java/openjdk11: missing arm bootstrap
    - Cross compile OpenJDK 11 zero variant for FreeBSD arm32.
    - Setting up arm32 build jail with help from fuz@.
  - [Bug #294060](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=294060): java/openjdk26 fails to build from source on powerpc64/powerpc64le
  - [Bug #294199](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=294199): java/openjdk21: Fails to build:
    - Review: [D56289](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56289)

#### **Completed Tasks**

- OpenJDK mainline FreeBSD work:
  - [battleblow/bsd-port PR#47](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/47): Sync with upstreaming branch. (Also synced as openjdk/bsd-port:dev)

#### **Features Delivered**

None this period.

#### **Challenges**

A mysterious build failure in the latest OpenJDK 25 branch, where the java compiler fails to initialize.

#### **Blockers**

None

#### **Next Steps**

- Continue with the upstreaming, while keeping our mainline up to date.
- Complete update of OpenJDK 25 port.
- Fix OpenJDK 26 build issue on PPC64.
- Add bootstrap build for OpenJDK arm32 port.

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**


[//]: <> (##########################################################)
