# March 2026 Status Update for Harald Eilertsen

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-04 - 2026-03-10

### Project: Improve OpenJDK on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

Landed a patch that enable building the Hotspot Debugger (HSDB) for FreeBSD, when using the LLVM backend. This was needed by one of the tests for OpenJDK on Aarch64 that checks whether the correct sequence of opcodes are generated for some calls. Also finally nailed a long standing issue where a test would fail often, but not all the time due to the ordering of loaded shared objects in the process being debugged.

The attempt at merging the first PR to what will become our upstreaming branch is still ongoing.

#### **Ongoing Tasks**

- OpenJDK mainline FreeBSD work:
  - (Upstreaming) [openjdk/bsd-port PR#4](https://github.com/openjdk/bsd-port/pull/4): Add BSD to autoconf scripts.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- OpenJDK mainline FreeBSD work:
  - [battleblow/jdk PR#40](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/40): Sync constructors for ThreadWXEnable with MacOS impl. (merged)
  - [battleblow/jdk PR#41](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/41): Enable hsdis for FreeBSD. (merged)
  - [battleblow/jdk PR#42](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/42): Fix flakey SA test for FreeBSD.(merged)

#### **Features Delivered**

#### **Challenges**

Getting reviews from upstream project members on the patches to the [bsd-port repo](https://github.com/openjdk/bsd-port) is required to make sure the patches will later be accepted into the mainline repo when the time comes. However, attracting the right people from the different parts of the JDK has to be done manually for now.

For patches directly to the mainline repo, the Skara bot adds labels that ensures that the discussion in the pull requests are mirrored to the correct mailing lists. However this is not done for project repos, like the bes-port repo. We are currently investigating the best way to get around this, whether we have to manually entice people to review every change, or if we could get some help from the Skara bot.

#### **Blockers**

None.

#### **Next Steps**

- Continue with the upstreaming, while keeping our mainline up to date.

#### **Misc other notes**

- I will be talking [about the project and my experience working on it](https://foss-north.se/2026/speakers-and-talks.html#heilertsen) at the foss-north conference in Gothenburg, Sweden, on April 28.
- A discussion about reducing the dependency on xorg libraries for the headless builds emerged on the [bug #289731](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=289731) (originally about bootstrapping the OpenJDK 21 port). I'm unsure about whether setting these dependencies as build dependencies only will break anything in runtime on systems without the libraries present. This needs some investigation, but could possibly be and improvement that makes the headless builds make more sense.

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**

[//]: <> (##########################################################)
