# January 2026 Status Update for Harald Eilertsen

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-01 - 2026-01-06

### Project: Improve OpenJDK on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

- Rework bootstrapping the OpenJDK ports:
  - Worked on scripts to create bootstrap jdk's from prebuilt packages.
  - Bootstrap JDK's for all versions on i386 (where relevant), aarch64 and x86_64 in place.
  - Unable to find prebuilt pkg's for ports for ppc74 and pp64le architectures.
- Use ref machine to build/test OpenJDK on Aarch64:
  - Still waiting for the last dependencies to be installed by clusteradm@ (Have not nagged on them over the holidays.)
- Fix Serviceability Agent for FreeBSD after upstream breakage:
  - PR has been quiet over the holidays, but the discussion has started.

#### **Completed Tasks**

None this period.

#### **Features Delivered**

None this period.

#### **Challenges**

- I've so far not been able to build a port on ref machine, neither as a port, or directly from the source tree. The latter should be doable as soon as the required dependencies are in place, but building from ports seems challenging, as it wants to install dependencies directly to the system. I will either need some help to overcome this, or find another solution for testing on Aarch64. An added disadvantage of this is that I was hoping I could use the ref machines to build the missing pkgs for PowerPC as well.

#### **Blockers**

None, but see challenges.

#### **Next Steps**

- Continue work on above tasks.
- Begin work upstream openjdk/bsd-port
- Explore more around package dependencies to resolve jdk/jre/headless issues

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**

[//]: <> (##########################################################)
