# February 2026 Status Update for Harald Eilertsen

[//]: <> (### Add weekly updates in reverse chronological order. ###)
## **Reporting Period:** 2026-02-04 - 2026-02-10

### Project: Improve OpenJDK on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

Finally found and fixed the remaining issue causing consistent test failures in
the Serviceability Agent on FreeBSD. There's still some sporadic failures due
to `ptrace(2)` calls sometimes failing for unknown reasons. I've submitted two
potential fixes for the Serviceability Agent: One that tries to [align with the
MacOS](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/37) implementation, and one that
[builds directly on the existing](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/38)
BSD implementation. There are some advantages and disadvantages to both
approaches, but currently it seems the alternative that does _not_ try to align with the MacOS way of doing things works slightly better.

#### **Ongoing Tasks**

- Started on updating openjdk25 port to JDK 25.0.2.
- Review: [D54731](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D54731): java/openjdk21-25: Bootstrap from prebuilt packages:
  - Rebased on main to include updated OpenJDK 21 port
- PR: [battleblow/jdk #37](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/37) Fix sa agent on FreeBSD.
- PR: [battleblow/jdk #38](https://github.com/battleblow/jdk/pull/38) Alternative sa fix:
  - This one looks more promising to me, but may be split into two or there separate PR's.

#### **Completed Tasks**

None this period.

#### **Features Delivered**

None this period.

#### **Challenges**

Still one flaky test in the Serviceability Agent that I need to dive into.

#### **Blockers**

None.

#### **Next Steps**

- Finish openjdk25 update.
- Land SA agent fix in mainline bsd-port.
- Begin work on openjdk26.
- Push battleblow/jdk/bsd-port to openjdk/bsd-port/dev as baseline for upstream bsd-port.

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**


[//]: <> (##########################################################)
