# December 2025 Status Update for Bjoern Zeeb

## **Reporting Period:** 2025-12-01 - 2025-12-07

### Project: Mediatek mt76 wireless driver work on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** On Track but blocked
#### **Summary**

Some Framework Laptops are shipping with Mediatek MT7922 chipsets.  But users in
general (PR264300) are requesting support for various Mediatek WiFi chipsets.
See also https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/proj-laptop/issues/66 .

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [x] Upstream some code which was easy to extract.
- [x] Fixed the problem of EAPOL frames not going out, so now we get a handshake
      and data packets at basic rates.
      I had an iperf -t 0 (infinite) run (only doing about 5 Mbit/s) for 2 days
      without problem.
- [x] Contacted Martin Filla who works on an MT SoC support for FreeBSD:
      https://www.freebsd.org/status/report-2025-07-2025-09/#_freebsd_driver_development_for_bananapi_r64
- [ ] Started to test mt7915 to get that working as well.
      Behaves with different problems on amd64 vs. arm64.  Fixed some LinuxKPI bits.
- [x] Ordered more WiFi cards with different Mediatek chipsets (MT7612, MT7615, MT7991).

#### **Next Steps**

- [ ] Still have to test MT7925.  Need to shuffle cards which I try to keep to a minimum.
- [ ] Get us to 11n and 11ac.
      The current plan was to do this alongside rtw8x 11n and 11ac support.
- [ ] Figure out how to get my sample code for the Blockers out of my tree (read: into main).

#### **Blockers**

- [ ] LinuxKPI `struct page` work.
- [ ] LinuxKPI `page pool` work.
      I have a rudimentary hacked up version of both which does not yet
      meet even LinuxKPI standards but does the job to the next panic.
- [ ] drm-kmod at least will need cleanup for the above to land in any way.


### Project: 802.11ac support for Realtek rtw88 and rtw89 wireless drivers
#### **Overall Status:** Being worked on
#### **Summary**

Realtek rtw88(4) and rtw89(4) wireless drivers are currently limited to
802.11a/b/g due to extra LinuxKPI support needed beyond the KPI usage
of iwlwifi(4).

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [ ] Debugeed the first queueing problems which lead to crashes to get rtw89 more stable.
      Fixes need to be finalized and landed in main.
- [ ] Debugging a problem with multicast not working (reliably).
      Also seen this with a different driver (not yet supported in FreeBSD) recently.

#### **Next Steps**

- [ ] Debug what keeps us away from 11n and 11ac in both directions.
      This will likely also include other unrelated stability problems that need sorting.
- [ ] Firmware updates for rtw8x.
- [ ] Rename tunables (or get rid of them again).
      Needs to be coordinated with iwlwifi and other drivers as well as firmware ports.


### Miscellaneous
#### **Summary**

In addition to Realtek and Mediatek maintainance tasks are also on the radar.
These inlcude maintaining wireless drivers, bug fixes, and LinuxKPI changes for
wireless.

#### **Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [x] Deal with some iwlwifi(4) related problem reports.
      Some of this is email follow-up, other included LinuxKPI patches which are
      put to users for testing but need committing.
- [ ] More iwlwifi(4) PRs are on the table.
- [x] Done vendor imports for Linux v6.18 based wireless driver versions.
- [x] Merged rtw88 and ath10k as they needed no further changes.
- [x] Updated last outstanding review to firmware ports updates.

#### **Next Steps**

- [ ] MFCs
- [ ] Finish the firmware ports update
- [ ] Finish vendor imports. Update LinuxKPI bits for that.  Seems more general
      LinuxKPI infrastructure than wireless.

