# January 2026 Status Update for Bjoern Zeeb

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-26 - 2026-02-01

(see 2026-02 file)

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-19 - 2026-01-25

### Maintaining wireless drivers
#### **Summary**

Multiple drivers have fixes for various projects and problem reports (PRs).
As of Linux v6.19-rc6 all the bits I had been waiting for were available and
it seemed the drivers will be pretty close to final release.

#### ** Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [x] Done vendor imports for v6.19-rc6 for all drivers.

- [x] Directly merged rtw88 (no further changes neeeded), and
      noth mt76 and ath10k which are both not yet connected to the build.

- [x] Merged 802.11 and Radiotap changes which could go in not affecting
      the current state.

- [ ] Opened reviews for iwlwifi, rtw89, and mt76 LinuxKPI changes, which
      are merged (iwlwifi) or still pending.

- [ ] iwlwifi testing has revealed a deficiency in the LinuxKPI 802.11
      comapt layer in that a field of a struct is not filled out.
      During the net80211 vs. LinuxKPI 802.11 upbringing the state machine
      functions were unfolded, which makes fixing this now less trivial.
      The idea is to fold the functions back and avoid duplications and
      then apply the fix.
      Otherwise iwlwifi seems to be ready to go for testing in main.

- [ ] The rtw89 reviews along with the driver update will allow to close
      a PR where people are seeing a kernel panic due to a parallelism bug
      in the driver which was fixed upstream.
      Once the rtw89 update is in further changes to allow basic 11n and 11ac
      support can be migrated into LinuxKPI as well.

- [ ] Once mt76 reviews are done the next steps of adressing page pools
      and DMA32 changes can be updated and merged into the tree to make
      it easier to put out a tree to test/review the driver.

### Other bus attachment support
#### **Summary**

Given there is interest in SDIO support again I started cleaning up my
branch which contains the USB and SDIO attachment changes.
Initial reviews for simple LinuxKPI changes as preparations were opened.

I also tried to cleanup the LinuxKPI USB de-coupling from the native
implementatoin for the extra LinuxKPI structs fields, so we can include
Linux structs easily (we need struct device these days which cannot go into
the native implementation).

The LinuxKPI USB implementation needs some more updates from the 10-15 year
old implementation but initial wireless dongles are attaching already
(no firmware/packets yet).

Related to this I updated the USB quick to automatically detach the CDROM
some USB dongles bring along for Windows and OSX drivers so that the device
shows up as wireless right from boot without any user interaction.
Review for this is also pending.

Hope is that long-term we will support the modern rtw88/rtw89/mt76 USB
dongles that way as well as the list of these USB sticks is now
growing quickly and the majority of the shared code is already supported
through the PCIe support.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-12 - 2026-01-18

### Miscellaneous
#### **Summary**

Started the New Year by catching up and preparing for the next release.

#### ** Completed Tasks**

- [x] MFC to stable/15 and stable/14.  The latter saw about 75 changes
      being merged (some squashed), with more pending in case we get positive
      testing feedback before 14.4-RELEASE deadlines no longer allow us to
      merge driver and functionality updates.
      The merges include common LinuxKPI code (some shared with drm-kmod)
      as well as non-intrusive LinuxKPI 802.11 changes, a build fix in case
      of a missing compiler feature, fwget fixes, and some general bug fixes.
      The majority of the changes can be seen by issuing
		```git log --oneline 0b6bb8193597..16e2bb8177bd```
      on a stable/14 branch.

- [x] After a user report that iwlwifi(4) works on RISC-V we enabled
      firmware and module builds for the LinuxKPI based wireless drivers
      in main (16) and stable/15.

- [x] Working on rates and due to some discussion around more LinuxKPI
      802.11 compat needed I started splitting parts up between mac80211
      and cfg80211 routines while I was touching them anyway.

- [x] The 2025Q4 report got updated, accepted and pushed as well.

- [x] Followed-up on problem reports (PRs) and closed some.

#### ** Ongoing Tasks **

- [ ] Upstream the works from end of last year along with other bits I
      have been owrking on in private given there is wider interest to
      that currently.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-05 - 2026-01-11

Mostly AFK.

Some Emails and dealing with PRs.

## **Reporting Period:** 2025-12-29 - 2026-01-04

I was mostly out.

### Miscellaneous
#### **Summary**

Maintaining wireless drivers, bug fixes, and LinuxKPI changes for wireless.

#### **Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [ ] Tracking down a regression, which may as well be responsible for some
      otherwise unrelated problem reports.

