# June 2026 Status Update for Bjoern Zeeb

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-06-08 - 2026-06-14

### Project: Mediatek mt76 wireless driver work on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** Ongoing
#### **Summary**

The Mediatek mt76 driver is a collection of drivers for various
Mediatek chipsets of which we intend to support the modern ones
one after the other.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [x] Made lindebugfs compile and work with mt7921 in the hope to
      get helpful firmware messages to debug the TX crypto problem.
      The firmware messages were not helpful in this case but
      we now have access to some statistics and can (in the future)
      use the facility if needed.
      There is still one open review at:
      https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57524

- [x] Got TX and HW crypto offload sorted out.  The underlying
      problem was that a downcall needed either a sta or NULL
      depending on key and we always passed the sta, which for
      iwlwifi never was a problem.

- [x] Debugged the callout panic on PCI detach or shutdown.
      Turned out that mt7921 constantly re-schedules delayed
      PM work; upon shutdown the driver part holding the work
      structure and the callout part would be freed but the
      callout was still active and upon iterating the callout
      list tripped over the freed memory.
      mt7921 now survives a 12+ hours reboot loop, associating,
      passing packets, and after some random amount of seconds
      rebooting again.

#### **Next Steps**

- [ ] Check the rates parts in order to get out of basic rates
      for TX.

- [ ] Switch to 7925 and start fixing our LinuxKPI IDR
      implementation.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-06-01 - 2026-06-07

### Project: Mediatek mt76 wireless driver work on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** Ongoing
#### **Summary**

The Mediatek mt76 driver is a collection of drivers for various
Mediatek chipsets of which we intend to support the modern ones
one after the other.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [x] Worked on the (first) PCI detach panic and in the follow-up
      cleaned up some parts of the LinuxKPI PCI implementation.
      Changes are in Phabricator for review starting at
      https://reviews.freebsd.org/D57428  . If on clicks on
      /Stack/ in the Revision Contents sections one can see the
      full list of changes.

#### **Ongoing Tasks**

- [ ] Figure out why TX does not work with hwcrypto.

#### **Misc**

- [ ] Seen a TX panic as we have seen with rtw8x;  see the following
      bug reports:
      https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=295809
      https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=295928
      Both are beleived to be cased by underlying net80211 tech debt
      to be addressed in the future.


