# March 2026 Status Update for Bjoern Zeeb

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-23 - 2026-03-29


## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-16 - 2026-03-22

### Project: 802.11ac support for Realtek rtw88 and rtw89 wireless drivers
### Project: Support the MediaTek Wireless cards
#### **Overall Status:** Ongoing
#### **Summary**

While preparing the upstreaming work for Realtek drivers last week I
discovered that our `emulate chanctx` implementation is too naive.
This is still used by Realtek rtw88 and select rtw89 chipsets, as well
as various Mediatek chipsets.

#### **Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [x] Implement checks that all the `emulate chanctx` parts are coherently
      setup.

- [x] Implement a more sophisticated chandef compatibility layer.

- [x] Factor out chandef and chanctx setting and updating.

- [x] Adjust `set channel` to do the right thing.

- [x] Add fallback chandefs for scanning and a default to go to version
      so we always have at least a channel.

- [ ] Test rtw8x to make sure they work, especially the older rtw88 chipsets
      (rtl8821ce, rtl8822be) seem special.

- [ ] Look into the software scanning fallback to see if it needs adjustments.

### Project: Misc
#### **Overall Status:** Ongoing
#### **Summary**

There are multiple small items and reviews to sort out before 15.1-RELEASE.

#### **Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [ ] Update Makefiles to not use conflicting variables (in review)

- [ ] Check fwget and firmware packages to be up to date

- [ ] Check man pages to be up to date

- [ ] Sorting out -fms-extensions in order to remove them from main and
      prepare LinuxKPI USB (ongoing analysis for when this came into the tree)

- [x] lindebugfs / LinuxKPI reviews for jhb, who thankfully is cleaning up
      some old problems with user vs. kernel buffers and parts of the
      LinuxKPI implementations found with CHERI.

- [x] drm-kmod fixes in LinuxKPI for problem reports.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-09 - 2026-03-15

### Project: 802.11ac support for Realtek rtw88 and rtw89 wireless drivers
#### **Overall Status:** In upstreaming
#### **Summary**

While iwlwifi(4) has supported VHT for quite a while, other drivers such as
rtw88 and rtw89 need further LinuxKPI refinements and implementation of
extra fetaures and functions in order to do HT/VHT.   The same work is
likely going to help mt76 and ath1xk drivers to some extend.  While the work
was carried out end of 2025, driver updates to fix stability bugs were queued
first to get into the tree.  Now that this is done this work will be
upstreamed in piecemeal in order to be able to bisect any problems if needed
as we have seen differences in the past between different Realtek chipsets.

#### **Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [ ] extract and rebase individual changes for LinuxKPI 802.11

- [ ] upstream LiunxKPI 802.11 in order and as small changesets


## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-02 - 2026-03-08

### Maintaining wireless drivers
#### **Overall Status:** Finished for v6.19
#### **Summary**

Multiple drivers have fixes for various projects and problem reports (PRs).
Bringing all drivers to the same level and the last version of the Linux v6.x
kernel series is the current goal.

#### **Ongoing and Completed Tasks**

- [x] LinuxKPI 802.11 changes needed for iwlwifi (and rtw89) were upstreamed.

- [x] further changes to iwlwifi were implemented (especially for mld to
      close PRs)

- [x] iwlwifi (mld/BE200) testing finsihed.

- [x] iwlwifi based on Linux v6.19 was pushed upstream.

- [x] a net80211 bug (PR293645) got fixed preventing VHT80/160 in certain cases.

- [ ] maintainance and possible fixes / improvements (PR handling as usual)

