# May 2026 Status Update for Bjoern Zeeb

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-05-25 - 2026-05-31



## **Reporting Period:** 2026-05-11 - 2026-05-18 - 2026-05-24

### Project: wirless man pages and firmware for 15.1-RELEASE
#### **Overall Status:** Almost done
#### **Summary**

With 15.1-R coming up, make sure wireless documentation and
firmware are up to date.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [x] Update iwlwifi.4, rtw88.4, and rtw89.4 man pages to
  document that we are shipping wireless drivers based on
  Linux verison 7.0.
  Document known issues with some rtw88 and rtw89 chipsets.

- [x] Update fwget PCI IDs to the three wireless drivers
  so that we find firmware automatically.

- [x] Update wireless firmware ports to the latest firmware
  for each driver.  Also handle breakage from the base system
  with files containing a `?` breaking distinfo.

#### **Open Items**

- [ ] Make sure release notes are updated.


### Project: Native net80211 updates (tech debt)
#### **Overall Status:** Ongoing
#### **Summary**

net80211, the native wireless stack, is in the need for fixes,
updates, improements, and some major changes in order to continue
supporting newer wireless standards.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [x] Break out the type changes from the RSSI work from last year
  and commit these changes without breaking the user space API.

#### **Next Steps**

- [ ] Handle ports to use lib80211 and start experimental changes
  to update the user-kernel-API.

- [ ] Handle various net80211 PRs, some of which are repeatedly
  reported over and over again by "researchers".


### Project: LinuxKPI based WiFi and suspend and resume
#### **Overall Status:** (almost) done
#### **Summary**

As a user one does not want to manually handle suspend/resume
of wireless devices.  LinuxKPI based wireless drivers were
facing a special problem in that they cannot directly implement
PCI suspend/resume as native drivers could.

#### **Completed Tasks**

- [x] With drm-kmod v6.12 suspend/resume on various laptops became
  reliable for me so I no longer had to rely on (wait for) the ongoing
  USBDbc to be finalized (and then need to make sure xhci would not
  power off to not break the debug session).  Having console coming
  back finally allowed me to debug the last bits of LinuxKPI wireless
  suspend and resume and push the works into main.

#### **Next steps**

- [ ] Given immediate positive feedback I will merge the works
  to stable/15 in 3 days.


### Project: Mediatek mt76 wireless driver work on FreeBSD
#### **Overall Status:** Ongoing
#### **Summary**

The Mediatek mt76 driver is a collection of drivers for various
Mediatek chipsets of which we intend to support the modern ones
one after the other.

#### **Ongoing Tasks**

- [ ] Improve PAGE_IS_LKPI_PAGE works.  With drm-kmod v6.12 I
  found another case we had not handled yet.  I also found one
  crash given my defensive assertions and added extra debugging
  code in order to possibly catch a missing free operation.

- [ ] Resumed mt7921 testing and bringing the by now full of
  conflicts code from Nov/Dec over into the current tree.

#### **Next Steps**

- [ ] Making sure mt7921 behaves and figure out how to get a
  tree out for testing to people possibly merging the
  PAGE_IS_LKPI_PAGE work even without review so that people
  can manually enable it.

- [ ] Look into IDR which needs to be locking free in order to
  be used for mt7925.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-05-04 - 2026-05-10

Mostly out of office.

