# [11] [2025] Status Update for [Tuukka Pasanen]

[//]: <Week 45>
## **Reporting Period:** [2025-11-05] - [2025-11-11]

### Project: SBOMs (STA - WPE)
#### **Overall Status:**
At Risk

#### **Summary**
Added multiple base/src description, version, and upstream data to [Alpha-Omega database.yml](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/database.yml). It took some time to find all upstream versions and git/cvs points.

#### **Completed Tasks**
Alpha-Omega database.yml update

#### **Features Delivered**
All Alpha-Omega database.yml entries have basic information. There is a need to add some more

#### **Challenges**
SBOMS Zoom call. Issues got reviewed at FreeBSD Phabricator and there were denials for adding Lua scripts to ports tree and favored adding SBOM to `port(8)`, which makes the project slightly at risk as it means porting pkgconf code over to `port(8)`. As it's doable, but is it doable in this timeframe when integrating OSVf database to `pkg(8)` is still on the works.

with Alpha-Omega database.yml data adding main challenge was determining the upstream fork point (over 50% of the time this can be traced from commit messages). However, this isn't the core problem. Here's a breakdown:

Imagine FreeBSD forks library `libfoo` version 1.0.0 (with an acceptable BSD-2-Clause license) into `src/contrib/libfoo`. A vulnerability is then discovered in libfoo 1.0.0 and documented as CVE-XXXXX. FreeBSD creates a patch, commits it to its own Git repository, and submits the fix upstream. However, if the upstream maintainer is slow to review and integrate the change, `libfoo` in FreeBSD diverges from the original version (although it's still a soft fork, and FreeBSD integrates new versions when they are released).

When FreeBSD releases version YY.X, which includes libfoo, there's an issue with communication. How do you communicate that CVE-XXXXX is fixed in FreeBSD but not upstream? The OSV vulnerability database can help, but how do you determine this in the SBOM (Software Bill of Materials)?

Should these forked projects be versioned as FreeBSD YY.X or retain their upstream version number with a patch number? From an SBOM perspective, if libfoo is still at version 1.0.0, it appears vulnerable, but if it's labeled as YY.X, there’s no clear communication of the relationship to the upstream version.

#### **Blockers**
Are Lua scripts wanted to be integrated into upstream or just work for `port(8)`.

#### **Next Steps**
Add links to LICENSE files upstream or in FreeBSD git. Determine projects that are missing a LICENSE file and are forked (and upstream have the correct license file).

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**
Is there anything else missing in pkgconf and how to go forward with `port(8)`

### Project: Ports and Packages Sec (STA - WPD)
#### **Overall Status:**
On Track

#### **Summary**
Worked to get a correct OSVf export. There are lots of decisions to be made, like:
- What does GT '*' mean? Does it mean all versions greater than 0?
- How to say equal as it's not something that is part of the OSV-spec.
- Is it fixed in version and introduced in version?

#### **Completed Tasks**
OSV database starts to be ready for delivery. There are MVP scripts to handle transition and Lua script to make an array of vulnerabilities from single files.

#### **Features Delivered**
None

#### **Challenges**
OSV database, as said, is still not verified that my reasoning behind less than, greater than, and equal is correct. This has to be discussed before launching the new database.

Integration with `pkg(8)` is on good track but one major pain point is there are no tests for vulnerabilities (VuXML), so those have to be written to ensure that OSV-formatted JSON works the same as VuXML.

#### **Blockers**
`pkg(8)` OSV database integration and upstream database launch.

#### **Next Steps**
Implement `pkg(8)` code for parsing an array of JSON and test cases that VuXML and OSVf works as the same

#### **Open Questions and Discussion**
How to make sure that GT, LT, LTE, GTE, and EQ reasoning is correct.
