# December Status Update for Tom Jones

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-01-08 - 2025-01-13 (Week 2)

### Project: Improve FreeBSD Kernel Debugging
#### **Overall Status:** On Track
#### **Summary**

FreeBSD offers a variety of kernel debugging interfaces, the main interface
available on all systems is using the system console, typically via a graphics
interface. On modern system the graphics driver is routed via a GPU which
requires a lot of code to drive. This can lead to situations when the graphics
system crashes or the graphics output stops functioning where interactive
debugging is impossible or debugging at all isn't possible.

This project aims to provide a debugging mechanism that will work in the
absence of a functional graphics driver, first by updating and upstreaming xHCI
debug, by documenting and improving other debug interfaces and my adding
support for debugging interfaces in newer systems.

#### **Ongoing Tasks**
- [ ] Test loader support
- [ ] Test kernel support
- [ ] Track down stall in host mode driver
    I think the issue is in FreeBSD xhci code and I will investigate this next.
    The packet capture interface we have is at a much higher level and can't
    expose xhci transactions.

- [ ] Debug framework SOC uart issues
    I have the SOC uart outputting bytes early in boot with several hacks. It
    seems the issue is the clock rate from firmware isn't populated in our path
    and so we take an invalid default value.

    On a vanilla kernel overridding this with the xo parameter in loader
    doesn't solve this issue so there is more needed to understand the correct
    fix, but a proof of concept works.
