# May 2026 Status Update for Jean-Sébastien Pédron

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-05-08 - 2026-05-31

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.12

#### **Overall Status:** Completed

#### **Summary**

The DRM drivers from Linux 6.12 are now available as ports and packages for
FreeBSD 15.1 and FreeBSD 16-CURRENT, thanks to the help from siva@!

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.13

#### **Overall Status:** On Hold

#### **Summary**

I’m about 25% done with the porting of DRM drivers from Linux 6.13. I need to
prepare a patch to linuxkpi or FreeBSD native KPI because the DRM drivers are
using a new API to map the PCI ROM.

I switch focus on the project listed below for now.

### Project: Tracking suspend/shutdown hang with the i915 driver

#### **Summary**

When the `enable_guc=3` parameter is set, there is a great chance that the
computer will hang during suspend or during reboot/shutdown (this is the same
code path in i915). This parameter is required by modern Intel GPU, but it is
still disabled by default on FreeBSD because of that (`enable_guc=0`).

Tracking the bug is difficult because the computer is almost turned off when it
happens: everything is stopped and the display is turned off.

I was able to figure which line in the driver hangs: this is a function that
waits for a condition to become true. The next step is to find out why this
condition remains false forever.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-05-04 - 2026-05-07

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.12

#### **Overall Status:** Completed

#### **Summary**

I need to handle user feedback and reports after the completion of the port.
Some reports were old, but I waited for this 6.12-LTS version before addressing
issues that could have been solved by the updates up to 6.12.

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.13

#### **Overall Status:** On Track

#### **Summary**

Work has begun with the port of DRM drivers from Linux 6.13.
