# April 2026 Status Update for Jean-Sébastien Pédron

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-15 - 2026-05-04

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.12

#### **Overall Status:** Completed

#### **Summary**

The port of the DRM drivers from Linux 6.12 was completed and merged into the
drm-kmod master branch.

#### **Completed Tasks**

* All commits from Linux 6.12 related to DRM drivers were ported.
* All required changes to linuxkpi were reviewed and committed to freebsd-src main branch.
* All required changes to linuxkpi were cherry-picked to freebsd-src stable/15 branch in time for 15.1-RELEASE.
* A 6.12-lts branch was created in the drm-kmod repository with patches up to Linux 6.12.85, also compatible with 15.1-RELEASE.

#### **Next Steps**

* Update the drm-latest-kmod port; siva is already working on this update (https://reviews.freebsd.org/D56670).
* Create a drm-612-kmod port; siva has offerred to work on it.
* Address the FPU-related panics with the amdgpu driver (https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod/issues/428); the fix is ready for testing (https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod/pull/447).
* Review the pull request to fix Intel Meteorlake support (https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod/pull/418); this is in progress.
* Start to work on Linux 6.13 DRM drivers.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-04-10 - 2026-04-14

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.12

#### **Overall Status:** On track

#### **Summary**

I started to work on porting the DRM drivers from Linux 6.12.

About 60% of the commits were already ported to a branch in our drm-kmod
repository. The pull request is already created to see the progress and test
drivers:
https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod/pull/427

There are some additions and updates to the linuxkpi subsystem that the DRM
drivers from Linux 6.12 require. This is tracked in the same branch as usual;
the pull request mentionned above points to it.

#### **Next Steps**

* The DRM generic code relies on a missing feature of our implementation of
  xarrays: the caller can request that an entry is allocated between a minimum
  and a maximum boudaries, but our implementation does not support the minimum
  one.

## **Reporting Period:** 2026-03-30 - 2026-04-09

### Project: DRM drivers from Linux 6.11

#### **Overall Status:** Completed

#### **Summary**

The last linuxkpi patches were approved and I pushed all of them to the
freebsd-src main branch.

The FreeBSD_version was bumped to 1600015 in the process. This new version was
documented in freebsd-doc.

The drm-kmod was finally merged in the master branch:
https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod/pull/422

#### **Next Steps**

* Start the porting of DRM drivers from Linux 6.12.

* There was an issues reported with a newer AMD GPU which does not seem related
  to the updated to 6.11. It will be addressed once the 6.12 porting effort is
  complete as it an LTS version, if the problem was not already solved.

* A [pull request](https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod/pull/418) was submitted
  to fix Intel Ultra series integrated GPUs. It will also be addressed
  separately.
